So we derived how long this algorithm Indiana takes in this Big O notation where we basically only care
about the dynamic parts in the algorithm and not about the constant parts.
Let's do the same thing for our second solution now.
Now again here we have a constant part that's the safe check it only runs once and the same for the
return statement.
Now we learned that we therefore don't have to care about that.
Let's instead focus on the loop because that's the part that really depends on the array length.
Now here we see we go through all items in numbers and then in there we also go through all items in
numbers.
In the end yes we start one item above the first one so it's not the entire array we go through but
again and minus one.
But as I explained before for large arrays does minus one won't make a difference.
So in the end we could say inside the first for loop.
So this line for example will execute end times if we feed in an array with 1000 items will execute
this line 1000 times because we go through all the items and then and that's the thing instead of this
loop for every item.
So for every end time we go through the array again.
So this executes end times as well in the end.
We again go through the entire array but we do this instead of the outer array.
So what's our total time.
This algorithm will then take what's the time complexity here well the time complexity here in the end
is end times and times end because we go through the outyear array and then for every item so n times
we go for the array again.
So we have end times n and therefore this would be Big O and squared so this simply means for one item.
We of course only take one operation if we feed in an array with one item we take one operation.
But if we feed an array of 1000 items we in the end have 1000 times 1000 of different operations we
have to execute so a million and that of course is a lot.
And that's not growing in a linear way where for 1000 items it takes 1000 times as long.
But instead.
That's a quadratic time complexity here for 1000 items.
It does not take 1000 times as long but a million times as long.
So therefore if you compare these two algorithms these two solutions where we have a linear time complexity
and quadratic time complexity.
Of course the linear one is better.
This will take way less time.
This algorithm here grows in a linear time.
So for a million items we take a million times as long as for one item whereas this grows in a quadratic
way which means for a million items will take a million times a million times as long as we do for one
item.
So if we have these two alternatives and we don't need to sort for any other reason we should definitely
go with this first algorithm year because it takes less time.
It has o n instead of o n squared and that's how we compare algorithms and why it is Big O notation
matters to us.